Animecoin 0.10.0 alpha
====================
0.10 is in active development. Check out 0.9.2 branch for the current release candidate, or Releases section for the current and stable source.

Intro
---------------------
Animecoin is a free open source peer-to-peer electronic cash system that is completely decentralized, without the need for a central server or trusted parties. Users hold the crypto keys to their own money and transact directly with each other, with the help of a P2P network to check for double-spending.

Coin features
---------------------
- Unique algo (derived from quark).
- Fast, cheap transactions, blocks generated every 30s on average.
- No premine.

Upgrading
---------------------
Upgrading to 0.10 is meant to be fully transparent for both database and network. You may just run the new release with the old data directory.
If you encounter any problems, report those as bugs!

Downgrading
---------------------
0.10 brings a BIP-65 soft fork support. Once the majority of miners migrate to 0.10, the soft fork will be activated and blocks generated by older versions will not be accepted. Until then, downgrading is possible.
If you decide to switch back to 0.8 release for any reason, you might get a blockchain validation error when starting the old client (due to 'pruned outputs' being omitted from the index of unspent transaction outputs). Running the old client with the -reindex option will rebuild the chainstate data structures and fix this the problem.
Also, the first time you run an older release on a wallet created by a newer version it will rescan the blockchain for missing spent coins, which may take a long time.

0.10 upcoming features
---------------------
- Parallelized block syncing (testing).
- Fee Control Features and transaction priorities according to bitcoin upstream (implemented).
- libsecp256k1 integration (ongoing).
- Improved application design, including animecoin-tx and consensus library (implemented).
- Many security and RPC improvements for smoother integration of applications (ongoing).
- A soft fork akin to BIP-0065 (implemented, awaiting activation).
- A user interface for multisig capabilities (in progress).
- Tor hidden service setup automation (implemented).

Features in progress but not necessarily finalized before 0.10 release
---------------------
- Lightweight nodes (baseline support implemented, can only be run without wallet functionality yet).
- BIP-0068, BIP-0112 and BIP-0113 aggregation (ideally merged into BIP-0065 fork).
- Animecoin-specific optimizations (it's got a huge amount of block headers while the disk space usage is moderate, lots of small inputs from generated transactions etc).
- Minimize third-party dependencies.

Features to be removed in 0.10
---------------------
- getwork will be removed following bitcoin upstream, this may break certain antique mining software (implemented).
- Deprecated option -tor will be removed, use -onion instead (implemented)!
- SOCKS4 support will be removed (implemented).

0.9.2 release notes
---------------------
- Default fee policy has been adjusted to ensure relaying of huge transactions.
- Paper wallet generation and printing support.
- DNS seed is online.

0.9.1 release notes
---------------------
- The client is now OpenSSL-1.1 compatible (included in win32 build). Also compatible with the newer Boost and miniupnpc releases!
- Coin Control Features available.
- Lots of modern RPC commands available, including getnetworkhashps.
- A commandline executable split into the separate animecoind and animecoin-cli.
- Updated the database code.
- The transaction creation is no longer limited to 159 inputs (should resolve the 1272 coin sending limit for solominers).
- Improved wallet loading and rescanning time.
- The client will now check for possible network forking at startup and issue a warning if needed.
- Added BIP 0070 payment requests support, while keeping the old receiving addresses tab in place for convenience.
- You may now choose the data directory on the first run or with -choosedatadir option.
- Network traffic graph.
- Fusion widget style enabled by default for Windows.
- New options, make sure to review them!

Building from source
---------------------
You may use either way to build the Qt client:
1. animecoin-qt.pro for qmake / Qt Creator. Adjust the library paths and prefixes as needed and build.
The .pro file may not be up to date with the latest trunk changes.
2. Autotools for commandline (MSYS2 shell in Windows case):
 - ./autogen.sh
 - ./configure (with any options necessary)
 - make (use e.g. make -j8 for utilizing 8 CPU cores to speed up the build process)

You may want to use the strip utility to reduce the size of resulting executables.
Autotools will also build commandline utilities.

Required libraries
---------------------
- Boost
- OpenSSL
- Berkeley DB
- protobuf (since Animecoin 0.9.1)
- libevent2 (since Animecoin 0.10 trunk)
- Qt (optional if you don't need the GUI client)
- miniupnpc (optional)
- qrencode (optional)
- ZeroMQ (optional)

Berkeley DB notes
---------------------
By default, cryptocurrency wallets use Berkeley DB 4.8 for portability.
You may, however, use a more recent version (specifying the path and suffix in the .pro file, or passing --with-incompatible-bdb to ./configure).

IF YOU BUILD YOUR CLIENT WITH DB OTHER THAN 4.8 YOUR WALLET.DAT FILE WILL NOT BE PORTABLE.

If you wish to convert your wallet.dat between versions, you'll need the BerkDB tools for both versions available.

For example: db6.3_dump wallet.dat | db4.8_load wallet.dat.new

Other possible build issues
---------------------
- Invalid BIGNUM conversion (from non-const to const or vice versa). Happens to old OpenSSL releases.
Solution: adding -fpermissive to CXXFLAGS gets the job done and is widely used by other coins out there. It is strongly recommended to upgrade to a more up-to-date OpenSSL release however.
- Undefined reference to boost::filesystem::detail::copy_file. Happens to old Boost releases.
Solution: -DBOOST_NO_CXX11_SCOPED_ENUMS.
- Undeclared nullptr. Happens to antique gcc releases.
Solution: -std=gnu++11 or -std=c++11. Default since gcc 5.1.
- Qt frontend demands -fPIC. Happens to distributions built with -reduce-relocations.
Solution: the easiest one is probably passing -fPIC to CXXFLAGS and ./configure --disable-hardening (since hardening does -fPIE). Fixed in 0.10 trunk.

Other release notes
---------------------
- Translations need people to work upon.
- Regression test network code (like testnet, but special) was added following the mainstream Bitcoin client, this remains untested so far.

License
---------------------
Copyright (c) 2009-2019 Bitcoin Developers
Copyright (c) 2014-2019 Animecoin Developers

Distributed under the MIT/X11 software license, see the accompanying file COPYING.
This product includes software developed by the OpenSSL Project for use in the [OpenSSL Toolkit](http://www.openssl.org/).
This product includes cryptographic software written by Eric Young ([eay@cryptsoft.com](mailto:eay@cryptsoft.com)), UPnP software written by Thomas Bernard and sphlib 3.0 by Thomas Pornin.
